In our life experience, there are many people we do not forget, both good and bad.
But those we delight to call to mind or remember are the people most important and most
love to us.
This is true of Jehovah as well.
He knows everyone who has ever lived, righteous and unrighteous, and He will resurrect millions
of them.
But what he finds the greatest delight in is remembering those with strong faith who
became his friends, including many faithful women.
His word is filled with accounts of women who had strong faith.
This symposium will consider faithful women from the past with various backgrounds.
We will learn why they needed faith, how they showed faith, and how all of us can imitate
their faith.
We begin with the faithful woman Sarah.
Sarah needed faith.
Why?
Well, because like her husband Abraham, Sarah accepted a nomadic lifestyle when Jehovah
directed them to do so.
Hebrews 118 says of Abraham that by faith, he obeyed by going out to a place that he
was to receive as an inheritance, although not knowing where he was going.
What was true for Abraham was true for Sarah as well.
Along with Abraham, she complied with Jehovah's direction and she left the prosperous city
of Ur.
She no doubt had to leave behind her relatives as well as material advantages.
We read at Genesis 12 in verse 1 that Abraham was told, Go out from your land and away
from your relatives.
Such moves are never easy.
Actually, moving is known to be one of the most stressful things that people must do at
times, especially when it involves moving away from friends and relatives.
Yes, Sarah needed faith and she had it.
She cooperated with her husband's direction, which meant accepting a completely different
way of life.
Her obedience revealed her strong faith in Jehovah.
As you watch the following video, imagine the challenges that Sarah faced.
Life in Ur was comfortable.
We had all the modern conveniences.
Then Jehovah gave us an assignment we never expected.
One that meant saying goodbye to the life we loved.
But rather than look behind, Abraham and I looked ahead.
We had seen Jehovah's hand in our lives and we knew he would be with us every step of
the journey.
And he was in ways that surprised us.
Ways we never could have imagined.
Jehovah did more than help us.
He fulfilled his every promise.
As accurately depicted in that video, how did Sarah show faith?
She showed faith by looking ahead.
She also reflected on what Jehovah had already done for them.
Abraham and Sarah had seen Jehovah's hand in their lives.
They were his friends.
They obeyed before.
And Jehovah had confidence in their obedience now.
As a woman of strong faith, Sarah trusted that Jehovah would continue to be with them
in their new assignment.
She willingly gave up the comforts and conveniences of her.
And her faith in God did not go unrewarded.
In time, she received a blessing that she never could have anticipated.
Sarah's faith in Jehovah led to the birth of Isaac.
What made this blessing especially remarkable is described for us at Hebrews chapter 11
verses 11 and 12.
Let's read those verses.
Hebrews chapter 11 lists a number of faithful servants of God.
Sarah is mentioned along with Abraham.
As we read starting in verse 11, notice how the focus is on faith.
By faith, also Sarah received power to conceive offspring,
even when she was past the age,
since she considered him faithful who made the promise.
For this reason, from one man who was as good as dead,
there were born children as many as the stars of heaven and number
and as innumerable as the sands by the sea side.
So what remarkable blessing did Sarah receive as a result of her faith?
The power to conceive offspring, even when she was past the age it said.
But how specifically did she show faith?
She showed faith because she considered him faithful who had made the promise.
Sarah had faith in Jehovah's promise that Abraham would become the father to many.
Abraham needed faith, but so did Sarah.
And because they both had such faith,
verse 12 says, for this reason there were born children.
Now some might say, but I recall from the scriptures that Sarah laughed
when she heard that she would give birth.
True, but was that because she lacked faith?
Not at all.
We read a moment ago that Sarah considered Jehovah faithful.
In other words, she trusted him.
So what happened?
Well, evidently the thought of giving birth at her age struck her as being so unusual
that she could not hold back laughing to herself.
So while she was only all too human, she was undeniably a woman of strong faith.
Years later, Sarah's faith in Jehovah's promise concerning Isaac
moved her to speak up when five-year-old Isaac was persecuted or bullied
by 19-year-old Ishmael.
She saw a real threat to the well-being of Isaac,
and her faith reminded her that Isaac was more than just her son.
He was assigned a key role in Jehovah's purpose,
so she mustered up courage and spoke up in his defense.
Strong faith helps us to do many things.
In the following dramatization,
take note of how a husband and wife show faith like that of Abraham and Sarah.
Saying goodbye is never easy.
And even though we were excited about our new LDC assignment,
it was going to take us further than we'd ever been.
It wasn't just a new routine.
It was a holy way of life.
With each new movement project, we thought about Sarah.
She focused on the good things ahead,
and not on what she had left behind.
And that's what we tried to do.
Jehovah's been so good to us.
We didn't always know where the next project would take us,
but we did know that Jehovah would be with us every step of the way.
As demonstrated in that video,
we can strengthen our faith by meditating on Jehovah's goodness to his people in the past,
and his goodness to his people today.
Take time to meditate on how Jehovah has helped you
when you've made sacrifices in his service.
As the sister in the video stated,
Sarah focused on the good things ahead,
and not on what she had left behind.
We show faith like that of Sarah's
when we support the decisions that are made by God's organization today.
Imitate Sarah's faith and follow Jehovah's direction closely.
When we are obedient to Jehovah's direction,
then as Hebrews 13, 17 states,
the brothers may carry out their responsibilities with joy and not with sign.
For married sisters, this means displaying a Sarah-like spirit in their marriage.
A Christian wife respects and supports her husband in doing Jehovah's will.
The Apostle Peter wrote that such a spirit has great value in the eyes of God.
What are some of the many ways in which sisters today display faith like Sarah's?
Well, many Christian women of strong faith are supportive of their husbands in the circuit work.
Many others leave family behind when accepting an assignment from local design construction
or the school for kingdom evangelizers.
And many sisters serving at Bethel do so far away from their families.
And this is true of single sisters as well.
All of these and many more show Sarah-like faith
by trusting in Jehovah's loving care and making themselves available in his service.
We are confident that Jehovah sees these acts of faith.
Hebrews 13, 16 says that God is well pleased with such sacrifices.
So see their example and imitate their faith.
Brother James Mans, a helper to the writing committee,
will now present the next talk in this symposium.
imitate women of strong faith, Rahab.